SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINES
Kernels
Up to this point, we have been using data sets that are linearly separable. This means that it’s possible to draw a straight decision boundary between the two classes. However, what would happen if an SVM came along a dataset that wasn’t linearly separable?

data points clustered in concentric circles
It’s impossible to draw a straight line to separate the red points from the blue points!

Luckily, SVMs have a way of handling these data sets. Remember when we set kernel = 'linear' when creating our SVM? Kernels are the key to creating a decision boundary between data points that are not linearly separable.

Note that most machine learning models should allow for some error. For example, the image below shows data that isn’t linearly separable. However, it is not linearly separable due to a few outliers. We can still draw a straight line that, for the most part, separates the two classes. You shouldn’t need to create a non-linear decision boundary just to fit some outliers. Drawing a line that correctly separates every point would be drastically overfitting the model to the data.

A straight line separating red and blue clusters with some outliers.
Instructions
1.
Let’s take a look at the power of kernels. We’ve created a dataset that isn’t linearly separable and split it into a training set and a validation set.

Create an SVC named classifier with a 'linear' kernel.

Checkpoint 2 Passed

Hint
classifier = SVC(kernel = 'linear')
2.
Call the .fit() method using training_data and training_labels as parameters.

Checkpoint 3 Passed

Hint
classifier.fit(___, ___)
3.
Let’s see how accurate our classifier is using a linear kernel.

Call classifier‘s .score() function using validation_data and validation_labels as parameters. Print the results.

This will print the average accuracy of the model.

Checkpoint 4 Passed

Hint
classifier.score(___, ___)
4.
That’s pretty bad! The classifier is getting it right less than 50% of the time! Change 'linear' to 'poly' and add the parameter degree = 2. Run the program again and see what happens to the score.

Checkpoint 5 Passed

Hint
Wow! It’s now getting every single point in the validation set correct!

Let’s go learn what kernels are really doing!